Add new PURL type: 'nix' [old] (#314)
package-url/purl-spec: PURL-TYPES.rst

      pkg:swift/github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire@5.4.3
      pkg:swift/github.com/RxSwiftCommunity/RxFlow@2.12.4

nix
---

> ``nix`` for Nix derivations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``nix`` for Nix store paths:
```

The PURL is for each store path, and we may have multiple PURL for different output paths in the same derivation.

> - The default package repository is <https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs> but the ``repository`` qualifier can override the package repository.

Reviewer: Does this field even matter at all? With just the PURL we cannot reproduce the drv path anyways, there's a lot of other details (like rev, system, ...) we'd need. Also, the line gets blurry if you have a repo that imports nixpkgs, but overrides an expression, what should this be set to?

Inclined to remove this, this can only be a hint at most.

Reviewer 2: With this field being mostly informative I feel we'd want a `nar` package type or at least a `nar` field to better identify where you got the package from if using a cache like `cache.nixos.org`. ommitted or something for if you built it locally?

Reviewer: It is not identifying the package. If you have a nar sha256 hash, you can fetch it from any content-addressed store.

Reviewer 2: "what" being covered by the hash, but "where" can also useful for some governance.
Also if you can find that hash in your content-addressed store then great, but if you can't you might at least want a possible alternative location to check to find the same artifact described by the PURL.

> - The ``name`` is the package ``pname`` field of the given derivation. It is case sensitive.

Reviewer: We don't always have the pname / version separate. Deep down pname and version are concatenated into a single string. Should something creating a PURL should try to split this off? (Probably fine, but in that case, see the comment on the `version` field).

Reviewer 2: the current state of name, pname, and versioning standards was part of why I didn't expect there to be a PURL standard yet for nix. (TBH I haven't checked on the current-state of discussions for a while so maybe it's settled lol)
Although it'd be great if this spec discussion helps push things forwards

> - The ``version`` is the ``version`` field of the given derivation.

Reviewer: How do PURL look like for store paths where the version cannot be extracted? Is this field (and other fields) optional or required? Other examples do explicitly say what's required and what not.

> - The ``drvpath`` qualifier is the derivation path (``.drvPath``).

Reviewer: Do we want to have an outpath here too, or are PURL always for individual output paths, so this information would be redundant?

Is drvpath optional or required?

> - The ``output`` qualifier is the output field, by default: ``out``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ``output`` qualifier is the name of the output, which helps to distinguish in the case of multi-output derivations
```

The "default" behavior is confusing. It doesn't describe if it should always be set, or if it is "out" in case the field is not present.

Or should it always be set to something, and the fact it's "out" in single-output derivations is an implementation detail of Nix that should be left out of the spec? I prefer this one, which is my the suggestion uses this variant.

I don't think it should be omitted in case of single-output derivations, it'd be odd if it suddenly would appear if an expression is refactored to multiple outputs.

Reviewer 2: including the output field also accounts for if the default is changed in the future and shouldn't be very painful to just include

Reviewer 3: we should just map this to `outputName` of the `drv`.    Then this works with `lib.getLib` etc

- Examples::

      pkg:nix/glibc@2.39-52?drvpath=/nix/store/3nxf8kw3vgghz2y72b9qwi01sz62nhyk-glibc-2.39-52.drv&output=out
      pkg:nix/glibc@2.39-52?drvpath=/nix/store/3nxf8kw3vgghz2y72b9qwi01sz62nhyk-glibc-2.39-52.drv&output=out&repository=github:user/nixpkgs
      pkg:nix/systemd@255.6?drvpath=/nix/store/r34i4md1cmc19392zbbp9ya5nmd0av0k-systemd-255.6.drv&output=dev

> 

Reviewer: You probably want to remove "nix" from the old list below.
